.so ../man/_header.so
\fBcloudscheduler\fR \- command line interface to cloudscheduler version 2 (csv2) servers.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
The general format of the \fBcloudscheduler\fR command is as follows:
.SY cloudscheduler
.I object
.I action
.I mandatory_parameters
.RI "[" "options" " ...]"
.YS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
The \fBcloudscheduler\fR command line interface makes RESTful requests to cloudscheduler servers to retrieve
information and control batch processing on clouds.
It is an alternative to the web browser interface, providing the same functionality, and like
the web browser interface can talk to any number of servers.
.P
CSV2 servers require authentication.
One of two methods of authentication must be used when communicating with servers;
either username and password credentials, or an X509 certificate may be used.
Accounts and associated credentials are set up by any privileged user, but any user can
change their own password.
.P
The \fBcloudscheduler\fR command provides the \fBdefaults\fR object together with its' associated
actions to manage default values for servers on a server by server basis.
Server location (URL), credential parameters, mandatory parameters, and other options 
are grouped under a "server" name.
The "default" server is always and automatically defined.
.P
Parameters come in two flavours, keyword/value and boolean.
Keyword parameters have no default value, whereas boolean values default to \fBFalse\fR.
When a group of settings is saved for a server, it will contain all the boolean values, but
only those keywords that have been explicitly set.
Specifying a boolean keyword more than once will toggle its' value from \fBFalse\fR to
\fBTrue\fR and back to \fBFalse\fR, etc.
A default value can be saved in the \fBdefaults\fR but overridden on the command line.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OBJECTS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
The first two positional arguments to the \fBcloudscheduler\fR command are  an \fBobject\fR 
and an \fBaction\fR to be perfomed.
For information about the actions associated with a particular object, refer
to the documentation for that object (eg. \fBcloudscheduler \fIobject\fB -H\fR).
The following is a list and brief description of the available objects:
.TP
.B cloud
.so ../man/descriptions/_cloud.so
.TP
.B defaults
.so ../man/descriptions/_defaults.so
.TP
.B group
.so ../man/descriptions/_group.so
.TP
.B helpers
.so ../man/descriptions/_helpers.so
.TP
.B job
.so ../man/descriptions/_job.so
.TP
.B server
.so ../man/descriptions/_server.so
.TP
.B image
.so ../man/descriptions/_image.so
.TP
.B user
.RS
.so ../man/descriptions/_user.so
.RE
.TP
.B vm
.so ../man/descriptions/_vm.so
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
The following global options are applicable to all \fBcloudscheduler\fR commands:
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Authentication Options
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
The following options are used to address the cloudscheduler server and to identify the user's current group to the server:
.so ../man/parameters/_server_address.so
.so ../man/parameters/_server_password.so
.so ../man/parameters/_server_user.so
.so ../man/parameters/_group.so
.so ../man/parameters/_server.so
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Information Options
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
The following options are used to display the \fBcloudscheduler\fR command line interface and API documentation:
.so ../man/parameters/_help.so
.so ../man/parameters/_long_help.so
.so ../man/parameters/_version.so
.so ../man/parameters/_expose_api.so
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.BR csv2_cloud (1)
.BR csv2_defaults (1)
.BR csv2_group (1)
.BR csv2_helpers (1)
.BR csv2_job (1)
.BR csv2_server (1)
.BR csv2_user (1)
.BR csv2_vm (1)
.BR csv2_image (1)
